# NAPPING AND MEDITATION ON MEMORY CONSOLIDATION
  Decades of research have shown that sleep, whether a nap or a full night of sleep, influences declarative and non-declarative memory consolidation. According to the active system consolidation model, a proposed mechanism of memory consolidation, sleep provides an optimal state for the re-activation, transfer, and storage of newly encoded memories. However, at present, it is not clear whether sleep, is responsible for the facilitation of memory consolidation, or whether there are distinguishable components contained in sleep, that are present in other non-sleep-related activities.
  
  We are using meditation and quiet rest to see whether shared components of non-sleep-related activities are influencing the memory consolidation, and if so, to what extent they resemble of sleep (e.g., behavioural quiescence; reduced sensory processing and interference; specific patterns of cortical EEG oscillations) that mediate the consolidation effects reported in prior works. Interestingly, certain behavioral waking states share some hormonal, physiological, and psychological characteristics with sleep. For example, meditation is characterized by, among others, behavioral immobility, reduced processing of external sensory information, lowered levels of arousal- and stress-related hormones, and lower-frequency EEG oscillations, all of which are also associated with sleep. 
  
  For my thesis, I will compare memory (explicit and implicit) consolidation among three conditions: wakefulness, sleep (napping), and meditation. The primary objective of the proposed work is to assess whether meditation, a state of wakefulness that encompasses some sleep-related features, exerts an effect similar to that described for sleep to facilitate the consolidation of memories in the human brain.
